CMS_SETUP.md, before:

# CMS Setup Guide

This guide will help you set up the CMS (Content Management System) with MongoDB integration for the SimplifyHomes application.

## Prerequisites

1. Node.js (v16 or higher)
2. MongoDB (local or MongoDB Atlas)
3. npm or yarn package manager

## Backend Setup

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
cd simpligyBackend
npm install
```

### 2. Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the `simpligyBackend` directory with the following variables:

```env
# Server Configuration
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=development

# Frontend URL for CORS
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:5173

# MongoDB Connection String
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/simplifyhomes
# For MongoDB Atlas: mongodb+srv://username:password@cluster.mongodb.net/simplifyhomes

# WhatsApp API Configuration (if using whapi.cloud)
WHATSAPP_API_KEY=your_whatsapp_api_key_here
WHATSAPP_INSTANCE_ID=your_instance_id_here

# JWT Secret (for future authentication)
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_here
```

### 3. MongoDB Setup

#### Option A: Local MongoDB
1. Install MongoDB locally
2. Start MongoDB service
3. Create database: `simplifyhomes`

#### Option B: MongoDB Atlas
1. Create a MongoDB Atlas account
2. Create a new cluster
3. Get your connection string
4. Replace `MONGODB_URI` in your `.env` file

### 4. Start the Backend Server

```bash
# Development mode
npm run dev

# Production build
npm run build
npm start
```

The server will start on `http://localhost:3000`

## Frontend Setup

### 1. Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the `simplifyhomes` directory:

```env
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:3000/api
```

### 2. Start the Frontend

```bash
cd simplifyhomes
npm run dev
```

The frontend will start on `http://localhost:5173`

## CMS Features

### Available Endpoints

#### Items Management
- `GET /api/cms/items` - Get all items with pagination and filters
- `GET /api/cms/items/:id` - Get single item
- `POST /api/cms/items` - Create new item
- `PUT /api/cms/items/:id` - Update item
- `DELETE /api/cms/items/:id` - Delete item

#### Categories Management
- `GET /api/cms/categories` - Get all categories
- `POST /api/cms/categories` - Create new category
- `PUT /api/cms/categories/:id` - Update category
- `DELETE /api/cms/categories/:id` - Delete category

#### Users Management
- `GET /api/cms/users` - Get all users
- `POST /api/cms/users` - Create new user
- `PUT /api/cms/users/:id` - Update user
- `DELETE /api/cms/users/:id` - Delete user

#### Dashboard
- `GET /api/cms/dashboard/stats` - Get dashboard statistics

### Database Collections

The CMS creates the following MongoDB collections:

1. **items** - Stores product and service items
2. **categories** - Stores item categories
3. **users** - Stores CMS users (for future authentication)

### Item Types

Items can be of three types:
- `furniture` - Furniture items (wardrobes, beds, etc.)
- `singleLine` - Per square foot services (false ceiling, painting, etc.)
- `service` - Additional services (sofa, dining table, etc.)

### Categories

Default categories include:
- Master Bedroom
- Children Bedroom
- Guest Bedroom
- Living Room
- Kitchen
- Pooja Room
- Services

## Usage

1. Navigate to `http://localhost:5173/cms`
2. Use the CMS interface to:
   - Add, edit, and delete items
   - Manage categories
   - View dashboard statistics
   - Manage users

## API Response Format

All API responses follow this format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [...],
  "message": "Optional message",
  "pagination": {
    "page": 1,
    "limit": 10,
    "total": 100,
    "totalPages": 10
  }
}
```

## Error Handling

The API includes comprehensive error handling:
- Validation errors for required fields
- Duplicate item/category prevention
- Database connection error handling
- Proper HTTP status codes

## Security Features

- CORS configuration for frontend access
- Input validation and sanitization
- Rate limiting on sensitive endpoints
- MongoDB injection prevention through Mongoose

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **MongoDB Connection Error**
   - Check your `MONGODB_URI` in `.env`
   - Ensure MongoDB is running
   - Verify network connectivity for Atlas

2. **CORS Errors**
   - Check `FRONTEND_URL` in backend `.env`
   - Ensure frontend is running on the correct port

3. **API Not Found**
   - Verify backend server is running
   - Check API endpoint URLs
   - Ensure proper HTTP methods

### Logs

Check the console output for detailed error messages and debugging information.

## Next Steps

1. Implement user authentication
2. Add image upload functionality
3. Implement bulk operations
4. Add audit logging
5. Set up automated backups

Commit message:

Update CMS and WhatsApp setup documentation to reflect the transition from SimplifyHomes to Interior Calculator. Adjusted environment variables, database names, and console logs accordingly. Added optional services to seed data for the new application context.

CMS_SETUP.md, after:

# CMS Setup Guide

This guide will help you set up the CMS (Content Management System) with MongoDB integration for the Interior Calculator application.

## Prerequisites

1. Node.js (v16 or higher)
2. MongoDB (local or MongoDB Atlas)
3. npm or yarn package manager

## Backend Setup

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
cd simpligyBackend
npm install
```

### 2. Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the `simpligyBackend` directory with the following variables:

```env
# Server Configuration
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=development

# Frontend URL for CORS
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:5173

# MongoDB Connection String
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/interior-calculator
# For MongoDB Atlas: mongodb+srv://username:password@cluster.mongodb.net/interior-calculator

# WhatsApp API Configuration (if using whapi.cloud)
WHATSAPP_API_KEY=your_whatsapp_api_key_here
WHATSAPP_INSTANCE_ID=your_instance_id_here

# JWT Secret (for future authentication)
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_here
```

### 3. MongoDB Setup

#### Option A: Local MongoDB
1. Install MongoDB locally
2. Start MongoDB service
3. Create database: `interior-calculator`

#### Option B: MongoDB Atlas
1. Create a MongoDB Atlas account
2. Create a new cluster
3. Get your connection string
4. Replace `MONGODB_URI` in your `.env` file

### 4. Start the Backend Server

```bash
# Development mode
npm run dev

# Production build
npm run build
npm start
```

The server will start on `http://localhost:3000`

## Frontend Setup

### 1. Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the `interior-calculator` directory:

```env
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:3000/api
```

### 2. Start the Frontend

```bash
cd interior-calculator
npm run dev
```

The frontend will start on `http://localhost:5173`

## CMS Features

### Available Endpoints

#### Items Management
- `GET /api/cms/items` - Get all items with pagination and filters
- `GET /api/cms/items/:id` - Get single item
- `POST /api/cms/items` - Create new item
- `PUT /api/cms/items/:id` - Update item
- `DELETE /api/cms/items/:id` - Delete item

#### Categories Management
- `GET /api/cms/categories` - Get all categories
- `POST /api/cms/categories` - Create new category
- `PUT /api/cms/categories/:id` - Update category
- `DELETE /api/cms/categories/:id` - Delete category

#### Users Management
- `GET /api/cms/users` - Get all users
- `POST /api/cms/users` - Create new user
- `PUT /api/cms/users/:id` - Update user
- `DELETE /api/cms/users/:id` - Delete user

#### Dashboard
- `GET /api/cms/dashboard/stats` - Get dashboard statistics

### Database Collections

The CMS creates the following MongoDB collections:

1. **items** - Stores product and service items
2. **categories** - Stores item categories
3. **users** - Stores CMS users (for future authentication)

### Item Types

Items can be of three types:
- `furniture` - Furniture items (wardrobes, beds, etc.)
- `singleLine` - Per square foot services (false ceiling, painting, etc.)
- `service` - Additional services (sofa, dining table, etc.)

### Categories

Default categories include:
- Master Bedroom
- Children Bedroom
- Guest Bedroom
- Living Room
- Kitchen
- Pooja Room
- Services

## Usage

1. Navigate to `http://localhost:5173/cms`
2. Use the CMS interface to:
   - Add, edit, and delete items
   - Manage categories
   - View dashboard statistics
   - Manage users

## API Response Format

All API responses follow this format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [...],
  "message": "Optional message",
  "pagination": {
    "page": 1,
    "limit": 10,
    "total": 100,
    "totalPages": 10
  }
}
```

## Error Handling

The API includes comprehensive error handling:
- Validation errors for required fields
- Duplicate item/category prevention
- Database connection error handling
- Proper HTTP status codes

## Security Features

- CORS configuration for frontend access
- Input validation and sanitization
- Rate limiting on sensitive endpoints
- MongoDB injection prevention through Mongoose

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **MongoDB Connection Error**
   - Check your `MONGODB_URI` in `.env`
   - Ensure MongoDB is running
   - Verify network connectivity for Atlas

2. **CORS Errors**
   - Check `FRONTEND_URL` in backend `.env`
   - Ensure frontend is running on the correct port

3. **API Not Found**
   - Verify backend server is running
   - Check API endpoint URLs
   - Ensure proper HTTP methods

### Logs

Check the console output for detailed error messages and debugging information.

## Next Steps

1. Implement user authentication
2. Add image upload functionality
3. Implement bulk operations
4. Add audit logging
5. Set up automated backups
